The **policy loan** option is found only in policies that contain cash value. The policyowner is entitled to borrow an amount equal to the available cash value. Any outstanding loans, and accrued interest, will be deducted from the policy proceeds upon the insured’s death. The policy will not lapse with an outstanding policy loan unless the amount of the loan and accrued interest exceeds the available cash value. However, the insurer must provide **30 days' written notice** to the policyowner that the policy is going to lapse. Insurance companies may defer a policy loan request for **up to 6 months**, unless the reason for the loan is to pay the policy premium. Policy loans are not subject to income taxation.

Know This

Policy loans are ONLY available in policies that have cash value (whole life).

### 1. Cash Loans

Whenever a policy has cash value, it has loan value. The amount available to the policyowner for a loan equals the cash value minus any outstanding and unpaid policy loans including interest.

**Loan value = Cash value – (unpaid loans + interest)**

If there are outstanding loans at the time of the insured’s death, the loan amount will be considered a debt to the policy and the death benefit will be reduced by the amount of indebtedness.

_Example:_

Vera has a whole life policy with a $150,000 face amount. Three years ago she took out a $50,000 policy loan, which has accrued $3,500 in interest. If Vera dies, the policy's death benefit will be $150,000 - $50,000 - $3,500 or $96,500.

### 2. Automatic Premium Loans

The automatic premium loan provision is not required, but is commonly added to contracts with a cash value at no additional charge. This is a special type of **loan that prevents the unintentional lapse of a policy** due to nonpayment of the premium. _For example_, a loan against the policy cash value for the amount of premium due is automatically generated by the insurer when the policyowner has not paid the premium by the end of the premium-paying grace period. It is a loan for which the insurer will charge interest. If the loan and interest are not repaid and the insured dies, then it will be subtracted from the death benefit. While the insurer may defer requests for other loans for a period of up to **6 months**, loan requests for payment of due premiums must be honored immediately.

Usually, the policyowner must specifically elect this provision in writing to make it effective.

### 3. Withdrawals or Partial Surrenders

Universal life policies allow the **partial** **withdrawal** (partial **surrender**) of the policy cash value. However, there may be a charge for each withdrawal and there are usually limits as to how much and how often a withdrawal may be made. During the withdrawal, the interest earned on the withdrawn cash value may be subject to taxation, depending upon the plan. The death benefit will be reduced by the amount of any partial surrender. Note, however, that a partial surrender from a universal life policy is not the same as a policy loan.