Each state is required to set up and maintain **Affordable Insurance Exchanges, referred to as Marketplaces**. These exchanges either serve individuals and small businesses separately, or have a combined exchange to serve both individual and small business clients under one organization. In states that have chosen not to build their own Marketplace, a **Federally-Facilitated Marketplace** (healthcare.gov) is available that helps with comparison shopping tools, eligibility, enrollment, plan management, and consumer support. Coverage may be purchased through the Marketplace's call center, website, or by postal mail.

Under the proposed regulations, states that choose to set up an Exchange for Small Business Health Options Program (SHOP) must adopt the federal standards for the program or have a state law or regulation that implements the federal standards. Each state will establish insurance options for small employer participation. A SHOP is intended to give small employers the same purchasing power that large employers have, the opportunity to make a single monthly payment, and the ability to offer a choice of plans.

PPACA defines _small employers_ as those with at least one but not more than 100 employees. Since 2017, states have been allowing large employers to purchase coverage through SHOP exchanges.

Insurance exchanges may or may not have open enrollment periods for small employers, but must admit small employers whenever they apply for coverage.

**NY State of Health** (NYSOH) is an organized marketplace designed to help people shop for and enroll in health insurance coverage. Individuals, families and small businesses can use the Marketplace to help them compare insurance options, calculate costs and select coverage. The Marketplace helps people to check their eligibility for health care programs like Medicaid and sign up for these programs if they are eligible. The Marketplace also tells what type of financial assistance is available to applicants to help them afford health insurance purchased through the Marketplace.
